This project was started by the group of Derrick Tubbs, Evan Pattengale, and Chase Moore as a capstone project for their Bachelors Degree in Informatics from Indiana University Kokomo. We met with the owner of a local area business to discuss options and alternatives to their current point of sale system that they were using. They had been using a point of sale intended for a restaurant until this point, so they had many complaints about their current system.

We worked with them to determine what kind of system would work best for them and began designing one. We approached them with several different prototypes and options to see what they wanted to mobe forward with. There were features that they wanted to retain from their current system, so we added those back into our prototypes. Once we had found a solution that the business owner liked, we proceeded to start designing the database and creating dataflow diagrams. These diagrams and database designs would be the foundation for what we would spend the next semester programming.

At this point, we realized just how massive the scope of this project was. It was far beyond something that three students with only their education as experience could complete in a single semester. We began to dig through other projects we had done to find bits and pieces we could use to build the overall system. Evan did the majority of the HTML and CSS work, building a beautiful page for all of our functions to be implemented onto. Meanwhile, I set forth on getting everything hooked up to the database and information flowing from the backend to the front. Chase, being the least experienced of us, spent most of his time pair programming with me. This meant I spent quite a bit of time explaining thing to him and bouncing ideas off of him. At times, he was more like a rubber ducky than a group member, but he always more than did his part to keep the project moving.

There were many obstacles that weren't really easy to overcome given our limited time and knowledge. None of us had any experience with Git or any other source control options at the time. As a result, we spent a lot of time manually merging files together from one user to another. This was a job that typically fell on my shoulders because I had the strongest understanding of all the types of code that were in our project. It also lead to a few headaches when some part of a project would work before being imported but not after.

This project taught me a lot about programming in a group, debugging, and just working through problems with a client. I still one day hope to completely finish this project, however there are other projects that have taken the spotlight away from this one. Please feel free to contact me for any information or with any questions at derrick.j.tubbs@gmail.com
